.TH ISCAN-REGISTRY 8 "2011-04-11" "Image Scan! for Linux" "System Administration Utilities"
.SH NAME
iscan-registry \- (un)register iscan interpreter plugins
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B iscan-registry
\fI--help | --version\fR
.br
.B iscan-registry
\fI--add <spec>\fR
.br
.B iscan-registry
\fI--remove <spec>\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
\&'iscan\-registry' updates the run\-time data for Image Scan! for Linux
.PP
Image Scan! for Linux plugins may need to (un)register themselves.
This utility gives plugins a common interface to do just that.  You
should not need to use this utility manually.
.PP
The following options are supported:
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
displays this message and exit
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
displays program version and exit
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-add\fR
adds a plugin to the run\-time data
.TP
\fB\-r\fR, \fB\-\-remove\fR
removes a plugin from the run\-time data
.PP
The following <spec>s are supported:
.IP
interpreter usb <vendor\-id> <product\-id> <plugin> [<firmware>]
.PP
The <vendor\-id> and <product\-id> are the USB IDs in hexadecimal
notation, prefixed with '0x'.  <plugin> and optional <firmware>
are pathnames to the corresponding files.
Note that the <plugin> pathname should not include an extension.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by AVASYS CORPORATION.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright \(co 2008  SEIKO EPSON CORPORATION
.br
This is free software.  You may redistribute copies of it under the
terms of the GNU General Public License, version 2 or later.
See <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html> for details.
