.TH ISCAN 1 "2011-10-19" "Image Scan! for Linux" "User Commands"
.IX iscan
.SH NAME
iscan - Image Scan! for Linux SANE frontend
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Image Scan! for Linux
(iscan) provides a graphical user-interface to control
EPSON scanners.  It allows the previewing and scanning of images.
.B iscan 
can be invoked either from the command-line or 
through the GIMP image manipulation program.  

When run from the command line,
.B iscan
acts as a stand-alone program that saves acquired images in PNM, PNG,
JPEG, TIFF, PCX or PDF format. Alternatively, acquired images can be sent
directly to a printer, provided your print system handles PNG natively.
CUPS and Photo Image Print System, versions 1.3.1 and later, do this.
LPRng and other LPD based printer systems may need a little help.
Refer to your print system's documentation for more information on how
to set this up.  When run as a GIMP plugin, the images are passed to
the GIMP for further processing.

.B iscan
accesses EPSON image acquisition devices through the SANE (Scanner
Access Now Easy) interface.

.SH RUNNING UNDER THE GIMP
As of version 1.15.0,
.B iscan
is automatically registered as a
.BR gimp (1)
plugin if you install the binary package.  In case it didn't (because
you built from source for example), you can register it yourself by
creating a symbolic link from the
.B iscan
binary to one of the
.BR gimp (1)
plug-ins directories. For example, for gimp-1.2.x the command
.PP
.RS
ln -s /usr/bin/iscan ~/.gimp-1.2/plug-ins/
.RE
.PP
adds a symlink for the
.B iscan
binary to the user's plug-ins directory.  Your system administrator
can register it for all users by creating a symbolic link in the
.BR gimp (1)
system plug-ins directory.  After creating such a symlink,
.B iscan
will be queried by
.BR gimp (1)
the next time it's invoked.  From then on,
.B iscan
can be invoked through "Xtns->Acquire Image->Scanning (iscan)" menu
entry.
.SH PRINTER SETUP
When not using the default printer , it is necessary to input the
printer name from /etc/printcap into the Print Command field of the
Configuration dialog. For example, if the printer name is pm900c,
input the following command.
.PP
.RS
lpr -Ppm900c
.SH EPSON Scan! for Linux WORKFLOW
Use the following steps to scan an image with iscan.
.PP
.RS
.br
1. Select the document source.
.br
2. Select the image type.
.br
3. Preview the full page.
.br
4. Create a marquee (frame) of the image area to scan.
.br
5. Auto expose the selected area.
.br
6. Select the image destination.
.br
7. Scan the final image.
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
gimp(1), gimptool(1), scanimage(1), sane-scsi(5), sane\-dll(5),
sane\-net(5), sane\-"backendname"(5)
.SH AUTHOR
Noriyoshi Sasaki and Peter Schretlen
